3600fs

Milestone 2 Progress:
[x] vfs_mount - seems okay, doesnt do integrity checking though for final submission
[ ] vfs_create - still needs some edge cases and minor functionality
[ ] vfs_delete - completely untouched
[ ] vfs_readdir - inital code written
[ ] vfs_getattr - done? not sure

Nathaniel Dempkowski and Nathan Vanbenschoten

We have chosen to implement the inode-based file system layout.

At a high level, the disk is divided into the following seven different types of blocks:

Volume Control (VCB)
The VCB is the first block in the file system, and contains metadata about the entire disk and the location of the root directory. The location of the first FREE block is also stored in the VCB.

Directory Node (DNODE)
DNODE blocks denote a directory, and as a result there is one per directory, which contains metadata about the directory as well as pointers to the DIRENT blocks that actually contain directory entries.

Directory Entry (DIRENT)
DIRENT blocks contain the contents of directories, which is generally the name, type, and block number of each entry, along with the validity of that entry. 

File Node (INODE)
INODE blocks represent files, and thus contain metadata about the file including, size, user ID of the owner, group ID of the owner, and the permissions associated with the file.

Indirect (INDIRECT)
INDIRECT blocks store pointers to either DIRENT blocks or INDIRECT blocks. They are used to efficiently store additional information about directories as needed.

Data (DB)
DB blocks contain raw user data, and nothing else.

Free (FREE)
FREE blocks are blocks that can be used as necessary by the file system, which also store information abount the next free block as a singly linked list.

Upon the initial format of the disk, we create a VCB as block 0, a DNODE as block 1, a DIRENT as block 2, and FREE blocks as blocks 3-N. Anywhere a block number is stored, we also store the validity of that number, which serves as an efficient check for things like free space, and some directory entries. 

We chose to implement the inode-based file system layout because we felt that it was a more elegant and interesting design, and were willing to put in the extra effort that goes along with that. It also more closely mirrors modern file system layouts, and we felt there was more to be learned from implementing it.
